ADMIN_SECURITY_SETUP.md, before:

# Admin Security Setup Guide

## Overview
Admin access is restricted to employees only. Interpreters use the same Clerk authentication system but sign up publicly through the mobile app. Security is enforced by role-based access control - only accounts with the `admin` role can access admin routes.

## Approach: Role-Based Access Control

### Step 1: Clerk Signup Configuration

**Important:** Public signup must remain **ENABLED** in Clerk because interpreters need to sign up through the mobile app.

1. **Go to Clerk Dashboard** → Your Application → Settings → User & Authentication
2. **Find "Restrictions" section**
3. **Keep "Restrict sign-ups" DISABLED** - This allows interpreters to sign up publicly
4. **Security Note:** Even with public signup enabled, admin routes are protected by middleware that checks for the `admin` role. Only manually created accounts with the admin role can access admin routes.

### Step 2: Create Admin Accounts Manually

**Note:** Admin accounts must be created manually in Clerk. Interpreters sign up publicly through the mobile app, but they will NOT have admin access.

1. **Go to Clerk Dashboard** → Users → "Create User"
2. Enter the employee's email address
3. Set a temporary password (user will be prompted to change it on first login)
4. Click "Create User"
5. **Immediately assign the `admin` role** (see Step 3 below)

**Security:** Even if someone signs up publicly, they cannot access admin routes without the `admin` role in their `publicMetadata`.

### Step 3: Assign Admin Role

**Via Clerk Dashboard (Required for new accounts):**
1. Clerk Dashboard → Users → Select the newly created user
2. Go to "Metadata" tab
3. Add to `publicMetadata`:
   ```json
   {
     "role": "admin"
   }
   ```
4. Click "Save" to apply the changes

**Note:** The admin role must be set in Clerk's `publicMetadata` before the user can access admin routes.

### Step 4: Admin Login Access

Admins can log in using one of these methods:

1. **Direct Admin Login URL**: `/admin/login`
   - This is the recommended method for admins
   - Not linked from the public website
   - Bookmark this URL for easy access

2. **Standard Sign-In URL**: `/sign-in`
   - Also accessible but less specific
   - Can be used if needed

**Important:** The landing page (`/`) no longer displays an admin login option to keep it public-facing for interpreters and insurance companies.

### Step 5: Verify Access

1. Admin navigates to `/admin/login` (or `/sign-in`)
2. Signs in with credentials provided
3. Clerk checks authentication (must be logged in)
4. Middleware checks `role === 'admin'` in `publicMetadata`
5. If not admin → redirected to landing page
6. If admin → access granted to `/admin/dashboard`

## Current Security Status

✅ **What's Protected:**
- `/admin/*` routes (except `/admin/login`) require authentication + admin role
- `/admin/login` is accessible without authentication (for login access)
- Middleware checks role before allowing access to admin routes
- Non-admins are redirected to landing page if they try to access admin routes
- Landing page is public-facing (no admin login card visible)

✅ **What's Configured:**
- Admin login route at `/admin/login` for easy admin access
- Middleware properly excludes `/admin/login` from protection
- Public website remains accessible for interpreters and insurance companies

⚠️ **What You Need to Configure:**
- **Keep public signup ENABLED** in Clerk (required for interpreter signups via mobile app)
- Create admin accounts manually in Clerk dashboard
- Assign `admin` role in Clerk's `publicMetadata` for each admin user
- **Security is enforced by middleware** - only accounts with `role: 'admin'` can access `/admin/*` routes

## Code Changes Made

1. **Updated Landing Page**: Removed admin login card to make it public-facing
2. **Created Admin Login Route**: `/admin/login` provides dedicated admin entry point
3. **Updated Middleware**: Excludes `/admin/login` from authentication requirement while protecting other admin routes
4. **Route Protection**: All `/admin/*` routes (except login) require admin role

## Testing

After configuration:
1. **Test Public Access**: Visit `/` → Should show public landing page (no admin login visible)
2. **Test Admin Login**: Visit `/admin/login` → Should show sign-in form (accessible without auth)
3. **Test Admin Access**: Admin logs in at `/admin/login` → Should redirect to `/admin/dashboard` with full access
4. **Test Non-Admin Protection**: Non-admin user (e.g., interpreter) tries to access `/admin/dashboard` → Should be redirected to `/`
5. **Test Interpreter Signup**: Interpreter can sign up publicly through mobile app → Should work, but they cannot access admin routes
6. **Verify Role Enforcement**: Only accounts with `role: 'admin'` in `publicMetadata` can access admin routes

## How Security Works

Since public signup is enabled for interpreters, security is enforced through:

1. **Role-Based Access Control**: Middleware checks `publicMetadata.role === 'admin'` before allowing access to `/admin/*` routes
2. **Manual Role Assignment**: Only accounts you manually create and assign the `admin` role can access admin routes
3. **Public Signups Are Non-Admin**: Any interpreter who signs up publicly will NOT have the `admin` role, so they cannot access admin routes even if they try

## Additional Security Recommendations

1. **Use Email Verification**: Require email verification in Clerk settings (applies to all users)
2. **Enable MFA**: Consider requiring multi-factor authentication for admins specifically
3. **Monitor User Activity**: Check Clerk dashboard regularly for new signups and verify no unauthorized accounts have admin role
4. **Regular Role Audits**: Periodically review all users in Clerk to ensure only intended accounts have the `admin` role
5. **IP Restrictions** (Optional): If you have static IPs, consider restricting admin login to specific IPs

## Support

If you need help configuring Clerk:
- Clerk Documentation: https://clerk.com/docs
- Support: Check Clerk dashboard support section

Commit message:

Update admin security setup, CORS config, and GitHub rename changes

ADMIN_SECURITY_SETUP.md, after:

# Admin Security Setup Guide

## Overview
Admin access is restricted to employees only. Interpreters use the same Clerk authentication system but sign up publicly through the mobile app. Security is enforced by role-based access control - only accounts with the `admin` role can access admin routes.

## Approach: Role-Based Access Control

### Step 1: Clerk Signup Configuration

**Important:** Public signup must remain **ENABLED** in Clerk because interpreters need to sign up through the mobile app.

1. **Go to Clerk Dashboard** → Your Application → Settings → User & Authentication
2. **Find "Restrictions" section**
3. **Keep "Restrict sign-ups" DISABLED** - This allows interpreters to sign up publicly
4. **Security Note:** Even with public signup enabled, admin routes are protected by middleware that checks for the `admin` role. Only manually created accounts with the admin role can access admin routes.

### Step 2: Create Admin Accounts Manually

**Note:** Admin accounts must be created manually in Clerk. Interpreters sign up publicly through the mobile app, but they will NOT have admin access.

1. **Go to Clerk Dashboard** → Users → "Create User"
2. Enter the employee's email address
3. Set a temporary password (user will be prompted to change it on first login)
4. Click "Create User"
5. **Immediately assign the `admin` role** (see Step 3 below)

**Security:** Even if someone signs up publicly, they cannot access admin routes without the `admin` role in their `publicMetadata`.

### Step 3: Assign Admin Role

**Via Clerk Dashboard (Required for new accounts):**
1. Clerk Dashboard → Users → Select the newly created user
2. Go to "Metadata" tab
3. Add to `publicMetadata`:
   ```json
   {
     "role": "admin"
   }
   ```
4. Click "Save" to apply the changes

**Note:** The admin role must be set in Clerk's `publicMetadata` before the user can access admin routes.

### Step 4: Admin Login Access

Admins can log in using one of these methods:

1. **Direct Admin Login URL**: `/admin/login`
   - This is the recommended method for admins
   - Not linked from the public website
   - Bookmark this URL for easy access

2. **Standard Sign-In URL**: `/sign-in`
   - Also accessible but less specific
   - Can be used if needed

**Important:** The landing page (`/`) no longer displays an admin login option to keep it public-facing for interpreters and insurance companies.

### Step 5: Verify Access

1. Admin navigates to `/admin/login` (or `/sign-in`)
2. Signs in with credentials provided
3. Clerk checks authentication (must be logged in)
4. Middleware checks `role === 'admin'` in `publicMetadata`
5. If not admin → redirected to landing page
6. If admin → access granted to `/admin/dashboard`

## Current Security Status

✅ **What's Protected:**
- `/admin/*` routes (except `/admin/login`) require authentication + admin role
- `/admin/login` is accessible without authentication (for login access)
- Middleware checks role before allowing access to admin routes
- Non-admins are redirected to landing page if they try to access admin routes
- Landing page is public-facing (no admin login card visible)

✅ **What's Configured:**
- Admin login route at `/admin/login` for easy admin access
- Middleware properly excludes `/admin/login` from protection
- Public website remains accessible for interpreters and insurance companies

⚠️ **What You Need to Configure:**
- **Keep public signup ENABLED** in Clerk (required for interpreter signups via mobile app)
- Create admin accounts manually in Clerk dashboard
- Assign `admin` role in Clerk's `publicMetadata` for each admin user
- **Security is enforced by middleware** - only accounts with `role: 'admin'` can access `/admin/*` routes

## Code Changes Made

1. **Updated Landing Page**: Removed admin login card to make it public-facing
2. **Created Admin Login Route**: `/admin/login` provides dedicated admin entry point
3. **Updated Middleware**: Excludes `/admin/login` from authentication requirement while protecting other admin routes
4. **Route Protection**: All `/admin/*` routes (except login) require admin role

## Testing

After configuration:
1. **Test Public Access**: Visit `/` → Should show public landing page (no admin login visible)
2. **Test Admin Login**: Visit `/admin/login` → Should show sign-in form (accessible without auth)
3. **Test Admin Access**: Admin logs in at `/admin/login` → Should redirect to `/admin/dashboard` with full access
4. **Test Non-Admin Protection**: Non-admin user (e.g., interpreter) tries to access `/admin/dashboard` → Should be redirected to `/`
5. **Test Interpreter Signup**: Interpreter can sign up publicly through mobile app → Should work, but they cannot access admin routes
6. **Verify Role Enforcement**: Only accounts with `role: 'admin'` in `publicMetadata` can access admin routes

## How Security Works

Since public signup is enabled for interpreters, security is enforced through:

1. **Role-Based Access Control**: Middleware checks `publicMetadata.role === 'admin'` before allowing access to `/admin/*` routes
2. **Manual Role Assignment**: Only accounts you manually create and assign the `admin` role can access admin routes
3. **Public Signups Are Non-Admin**: Any interpreter who signs up publicly will NOT have the `admin` role, so they cannot access admin routes even if they try

## Additional Security Recommendations

1. **Use Email Verification**: Require email verification in Clerk settings (applies to all users)

2. **MFA Configuration (Selective)**: 
   - **For Admins**: Consider requiring MFA for admin accounts only
   - **For Interpreters**: Keep MFA optional to reduce friction on mobile app
   - **How to Configure**: 
     - Clerk Dashboard → Settings → Multi-factor Authentication
     - You can set MFA as "Optional" globally, then programmatically require it for admin users
     - Or use Clerk's session token metadata to conditionally require MFA based on role
   - **Note**: Enabling MFA globally would require all interpreters to use it every login, which may be too much friction for mobile app usage

3. **Monitor User Activity**: Check Clerk dashboard regularly for new signups and verify no unauthorized accounts have admin role

4. **Regular Role Audits**: Periodically review all users in Clerk to ensure only intended accounts have the `admin` role

5. **IP Restrictions** (Optional): If you have static IPs, consider restricting admin login to specific IPs

## Support

If you need help configuring Clerk:
- Clerk Documentation: https://clerk.com/docs
- Support: Check Clerk dashboard support section
